# Certificate-generation-using-Matlab


#MATLAB PROJECT REPORT

PROJECT TOPIC: -

Automatic Certificate Generation Using MATLAB

Significance of your project:

 This program is used for generating certificates collecting participants' data from excel
sheets.

 This program can help save time and hustles and can arrange and manage certificates in
an orderly manner.

 Analysis and presentation of large data sets is a tedious task in applications such as Big
Data, IoT, and sensors-actuators modeling. The project presented here can be extended
and customized for analysis and reports generation in these applications.

 certificates generated by the program can be saved in a folder with a unique filename

Module and libraries used:

1. xlsread(filename) reads the first worksheet in the Microsoft® Excel® spreadsheet
workbook named filename and returns the numeric data in a matrix.
2. imread(filename) reads the image from the file specified by filename, inferring the
format of the file from its contents. If filename is a multi-image file, then imread reads
the first image in the file.
3. insertText(I, position, text) returns a truecolor image with text inserted. The input
image, I, can be either a truecolor or grayscale image.
4. Etc

Procedure:

5. Read an Excel sheet containing details. Text is read from the file separately from
numbers
6. Read blank certificate image
7. Obtain topics from the txt variable which are in 3rd column
8. combine names and topics
9. obtain positions to insert on the image, MSPaint or any image editor
10.Provide parameters for function inserttext
11.Font size is 22 and opacity of box is 0 means 100% transparent
12.generate and save files with .png extension
